ADDY OSMANI: So we're in
a coffee shop, sort of.
MATT GAUNT: No, we're out.
ADDY OSMANI: We're in a tavern.
We're not in a coffee shop.
We're in a tavern.
MATT GAUNT: Why are you lying?
ADDY OSMANI: We're
in an empty tavern.
It's a completely organic--
MATT GAUNT: We're in a pub.
ADDY OSMANI: It's an
organic-- it's an empty space.
MATT GAUNT: It's a pub.
ADDY OSMANI: It's a pub.
So module bundling is a thing.
It's one of those
other things that
make us cry on a daily
basis, to be honest.
MATT GAUNT: But it's
a necessary evil,
because then we get all
the S2015 goodness today.
ADDY OSMANI: You've been dealing
with a lot of the tools that
end in "-ify" or if-eye--
Browserify, Babelify.
MATT GAUNT: Rollupify
is my current "ify"
set, because I tried
Babel and [? Rollup ?]
without the "ify" bits,
and it didn't work.
ADDY OSMANI: Somewhere
someone envies you.
It's not me.
But someone probably does.
MATT GAUNT: No, they don't.
No one does.
ADDY OSMANI: So
we should probably
talk about what
all that stuff is.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, you
tell me how to fix it,
and that'd be great.
ADDY OSMANI: It's not happening.
So Browserify-- we'll
start off with Browserify.
It's a tool for compiling
your node flavor common JS
modules into the browser.
It's basically stuff
you grab off MPM.
It'll analyze your
require calls,
build a bundle that you can
serve up to the browser using
a script tag.
It's pretty--
MATT GAUNT: Yeah,
so basically, when
you do like require brackets,
whatever you put inside,
what it does is it looks at that
file and then just [INAUDIBLE]
basically in-lines it into
one single JavaScript file.
So then you create
a JavaScript bundle.
ADDY OSMANI: So
basically, packages
published MPM originally
intended for node
will just work in the browser.
It's kind of nice for little
utilities and stuff like that.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah.
ADDY OSMANI: Using it is
pretty straightforward.
So you go and require
something, like, I don't know,
a module called Magic.
There probably is a-- I don't
even want to look it up.
MATT GAUNT: You've made it.
ADDY OSMANI: I haven't made it.
MATT GAUNT: You have.
ADDY OSMANI: [INAUDIBLE].
MATT GAUNT: Carry on.
ADDY OSMANI: OK.
So let's say that
you've required
in a module called Unicorn.
You can then go and start using
it, like do unicorn.dance.
You go and run
Browserify against it
to generate a bundle.
And when you try it
out in the browser,
it'll go and log a message.
MATT GAUNT: Dance like
nobody is watching you.
ADDY OSMANI:
Because they're not.
MATT GAUNT: I'll always
watch you dance, Addy.
ADDY OSMANI: And that's
where the lawyers come in.
So we talked about Browserify.
We'll come back to that.
We also have to mention Webpack.
So Webpack--
MATT GAUNT: Webpack is
like the new hotness,
and I've not looked at
it, because the last time
I spoke to you using
this, you seemed
like you were in severe pain.
ADDY OSMANI: I had bucket
next to my desk from my tears.
It just came from Webpack.
So Webpack, it's great.
It's useful.
It's just it's not the
nicest thing to use.
So Webpack is another
module bundler,
packs common JS modules, your
AMD modules in the browser.
It has a few other features.
It's got like
things like loaders
for transforming
resources into JavaScript.
So you can take something
like JSX, just load it in.
It'll do all the
transformations for you.
Loaders are sort of like
tasks in other build tools.
So you'd use it as a way to
get you sort of front end
build steps-- ish.
MATT GAUNT: I'd like--- I'm
still trying to figure out what
it does over Browserify
and everything else.
ADDY OSMANI: OK, so let's ignore
anything that I've said there.
The main thing that
I like Webpack for
is a feature called
code splitting.
So code splitting lets you
basically split your code base
into chunks.
You can then go and
load them on demands.
It's kind of nice.
MATT GAUNT: So this
is just to have
a cross-browser way of
loading in these extra chunks
of JavaScript.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah,
basically, you
can configure what you want,
how it is that you want
to split your code base up.
And it'll just
figure out the rest.
It's kind of nice.
MATT GAUNT: OK.
ADDY OSMANI: It also has this
other feature called Hot Module
Replacement.
Have you heard of that before?
MATT GAUNT: No.
ADDY OSMANI: It sounds great.
It's HMR.
So that's used to
inject updated modules
into your active runtime.
So let's say that we
had like, I don't know,
a chart widget of
some sort that relied
on a lot on a bunch
of different modules.
And some of those modules
ended up getting updated.
You could inject
like the updates
into your active running
runtime and just get it working.
MATT GAUNT: Fair enough.
ADDY OSMANI: It's kind of cool.
It's like live reload for
every module, sort of.
MATT GAUNT: But on live code.
ADDY OSMANI: It's extra live.
MATT GAUNT:
[INAUDIBLE] production.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah-- live, live.
Using Webpack's pretty
straightforward.
Go in and install
it globally, run it
against your app to go
and generate a bundle,
and then just include
using some script tags.
It's pretty straightforward.
MATT GAUNT: Nice.
ADDY OSMANI: It's got
a config file as well.
Everything's got to have
its own config these days.
You're probably wondering what
the difference between Webpack
and-- you don't care anymore.
You're just dead on the inside.
MATT GAUNT: No,
I can kind of see
there being some advantages.
But at the same time,
I don't think I'd ever
use the Webpack features.
ADDY OSMANI: What's
wrong with you?
MATT GAUNT: Well,
Browserify just makes sense.
And if I can get away with not
using Browserify, then I would.
But I can't, so.
ADDY OSMANI: Picking a
choice between Webpack
and Browserify is
a little bit more
nuanced than just saying
they both do the same thing.
If you only care about features,
it depends on the features.
Like if you want the code
splitting or the hot module
replacement, go and use Webpack.
Browserify is a little bit
smaller and more modular,
lets you go and select
plugins, and compose them
with transforms.
It's nice.
Webpack, I would say, brings
more features to the table,
and it puts those in core.
But they're both
pretty extensible.
So try them both out.
Use whatever makes sense.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah.
ADDY OSMANI: Moving on,
Sam Saccone recently
put together this repo called
"The Cost of Transpiing
ES2015 to ES2016,"
and he tried out
a whole range of different
module bundling strategies.
He found out that there
were like some very small
differences.
Once you start pairing like
Browserify and Babelify,
your web pap configs and other
bits and pieces, the numbers,
they vary slightly.
But you don't start really
seeing huge wins until you
try out like Closure or Rollup.
Have you tried
out Rollup before?
MATT GAUNT: I vetted
it now, like because I
think we had this
discussion of why would
you need Rollup in a
Browserify/Babelify world.
And it was the tree shaking.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah, so Rollup
assumes that in some cases
that you're going to be probably
working with the S2015 modules,
and it's got this nice
feature called tree
shaking that excludes your
unused exports from bundles.
Webpack 2 beta, I want
to say, has got support
for tree shaking
as well, if people
want to stick with Webpack.
But it's a useful feature,
good for eliminating dead code
that you don't really need.
I believe Richard Harris has got
a good blog post on Medium that
explains the differences between
tree shaking and dead code
elimination and how all
that stuff plays out.
It's worth checking out.
But Rollup's pretty
straightforward to use.
Just go install it
globally, specify
what format you want your
output bundle to take,
whether it's common
JS or what have you,
and it just does its thing.
As it turns out,
Rollup's output's
a few kilobytes smaller.
I think I read somewhere
that a few people who
are trying the
stuff out have found
like on average they were
getting 20% or 30% wins using
Rollup.
That's, again, assuming
you're playing around
with the S2015 modules.
MATT GAUNT: But presumably,
as you use it more and more,
the wins might actually grows
well if more libraries are
using S2015.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah.
But also, this is a nice
little visual from Sam.
Basically, the tl:dr is Closure
actually ends up giving you
the smallest size if you're
looking at module bundling
stuff.
We didn't even talk
about Closure at all.
But people should
check out this repo.
It's a good helper
for roughly guessing
what's going to be useful
running through its runtime.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, and it's
nice seeing all the options.
I think the thing
is it comes down
to a point of what
works for your project
and is the easiest for you
to work with, because there's
no clear winner on that to
the point where it's like,
oh, if you clearly
do all this pain,
you're going to get to a nice
clear reduction in file size.
It's going to be minimal.
ADDY OSMANI: Yes.
So if you're not using an "ify"
tool in your current workflow--
well, Webpack doesn't
have an "ify" in it,
until we've got Webpackify.
MATT GAUNT: See,
the saddest thing
is I can see it happening
next week now-- Webpackify.
ADDY OSMANI: Well, that's our
job-- slowly making JavaScript
worse on a week-to-week basis.